<document>

<div class="navigation">



</div>

<div><p>
<course number="8.370r" display_name="Quantum Info Science I" attrib_string="semester=2017_Fall"><p>
<chapter display_name="Welcome to 8.370r" attrib_string="url_name=welcome" linenum="17" tex_filename="welcome.tex" refnum="1"><p>
<sequential display_name="Introduction to 8.370r" attrib_string="" linenum="4" tex_filename="./course_intro.tex" refnum="1"><p>
<html display_name="About this course" attrib_string="" linenum="6" tex_filename="./course_intro.tex"><p>
<big class="xxlarge">About this course</big> </p><p>
<b class="bf"><big class="xlarge">Welcome to 8.370r Quantum Information Science I.</big></b> </p><p>
This course rovides an introduction to the theory and practice of quantum computation. We cover the physics of information processing; quantum logic; quantum algorithms including Shor's factoring algorithm and Grover's search algorithm; quantum error correction; quantum communication and cryptography. Prior knowledge of quantum mechanics helpful but not required. This is the first course in a sequence of two quantum information science courses at MIT. </p><p>
You may find helpful the <a href="https://www.edx.org/course/mastering-quantum-mechanics-part-1-wave-mitx-8-05-1x" target="_blank">MIT 8.05x courses on edX</a>, and Berkeley's <a href="https://www.edx.org/course/quantum-mechanics-quantum-computation-uc-berkeleyx-cs-191x" target="_blank">CS191 course</a>. The <a href="https://www.edx.org/course/quantum-cryptography-caltechx-delftx-qucryptox" target="_blank">Caltech-TU Delft course on quantum cryptography</a> may also be insightful. </p><p>
This course comprises four units, each with lectures and in-depth, automatically graded problems: </p><ul class="itemize">

<li><p>
<a href="/course/courseware/unit1" target="_blank">Unit 1: Quantum and classical computing fundamentals</a> &#8211; an introduction to quantum computation; classical Boolean logic; introduction to quantum mechanics; and quantum wierdness. </p></li>
<li><p>
<a href="/course/courseware/unit2" target="_blank">Unit 2: Simple quantum protocols and algorithms</a> &#8211; covering quantum teleportation, superdense coding, the quantum circuit model, the Deutsch-Jozsa quantum algorithm, Simon's algorithm, the quantum Fourier transform, phase estimation, and Shor's quantum factoring algorith. </p></li>
<li><p>
<a href="/course/courseware/unit3" target="_blank">Unit 3: Quantum noise, codes, and communication</a> &#8211; illustrating classical error correction codes, quantum noise models, the nine-qubit quantum code, criteria for quantum codes, Calderbank-Shor-Steane codes, and quantum key distribution. </p></li>
<li><p>
<a href="/course/courseware/unit4" target="_blank">Unit 4: Models of quantum computation</a> &#8211; describing the role of measurement in quantum algorithms, distributed quantum algorithms, noisy computation and fault-tolerance, quantum fault-tolerance, and adiabatic quantum computation. </p></li>
</ul><p>
<b class="bf"><big class="xlarge">Assessments and Deadlines</big></b> </p><p>
There are eight problem sets - two for each unit. </p><p>
<b class="bf"><big class="xlarge">Grading and Certificates</big></b> </p><p>
The course grade is 40% homework, 20% midterm exam, 30% final exam, and 10% participation. </p><p>
<b class="bf"><big class="xlarge">Honor Code</big></b> </p><p>
As described in the <a href="https://www.edx.org/edx-terms-service" target="_blank">edX Honor code</a>, you are expected to: </p><ul class="itemize">

<li><p>
Complete all tests and assignments on my own, unless collaboration on an assignment is explicitly permitted. </p></li>
<li><p>
Maintain only one user account and not let anyone else use my username and/or password. </p></li>
<li><p>
Not engage in any activity that would dishonestly improve my results, or improve or hurt the results of others. </p></li>
<li><p>
Not post answers to problems that are being used to assess student performance. </p></li>
</ul><p>
<b class="bf"><big class="xlarge">Textbook and References</big></b> </p><p>
You may find it helpful to refer to: <a href="https://www.amazon.com/Quantum-Computation-Information-10th-Anniversary/dp/1107002176" target="_blank">Quantum Computation and Quantum Information</a>, by Nielsen and Chuang. There are also excellent, freely available <a href="http://www.theory.caltech.edu/~preskill/ph219/index.html#lecture" target="_blank">lecture notes by John Preskill</a>, and superb <a href="http://pirsa.org/C15009" target="_blank">video lectures by Daniel Gottesman</a>. </p></html> </p></sequential> </p><p>
<sequential display_name="Search this course" attrib_string="" linenum="36" tex_filename="welcome.tex" refnum="2"><p>
<vertical display_name="Search this course" attrib_string="" refnum="1"><p>
<html display_name="Search this course" attrib_string="" linenum="43" tex_filename="welcome.tex"><p>
<big class="xlarge">Search the 8.370r course content</big> </p><p>
This search covers videos, problems, and text content. </p><p>
<edxinclude linenum="51" filename="welcome.tex">XML/site_search.xml</edxinclude> </p></html> </p></vertical> </p></sequential> </p></chapter> </p></course> </p></div>





<div class="navigation">



</div>

</document>